---
title: Community Highlights 2025
url: https://arrow.apache.org/blog/2026/03/19/arrow-2025-highlights/
date: '2026-03-19'
author: pmc
feed_url: https://arrow.apache.org/feed.xml
---
As you may have read in a previous blog post 1, the Apache Arrow project recently turned 10 years old. We are grateful to everyone who helped us achieve this milestone, and we wanted to celebrate the community's accomplishments, by publishing our community highlights from 2025. We were inspired by the research by Dr Cat Hicks et al 2, who found that concrete evidence of progress and accomplishments is instrumental to motivation and collaboration in developer teams. We think the same should hold for open source. New contributors It has been great to see many new contributors joining the project in the past year, with over 300 such individuals observed across the main Apache Arrow language implementations. Number of new contributors per repository. Repository/Implementation Number of new contributors arrow 125 arrow-rs 132 arrow-java 28 arrow-go 35 Worth highlighting is alinaliBQ who has been very active on the C++ Flight SQL ODBC Driver work together with justing-bq. AntoinePrv has done a huge amount of work on the C++ Parquet implementation and andishgar in the C++ Statistics area. rmnskb got involved with PyArrow in EuroPython sprints and has contributed multiple PRs since then. On the same event paddyroddy also started with his first contribution and helped on the Python packaging side further on. sdf-jkl, liamzwbao, friendlymatthew, and klion26 helped drive early Variant functionality in the Rust Parquet implementation and contributed a number of follow-up improvements. jecsand838 drove major improvements to the Rust arrow-avro crate, work highlighted in the Introducing Arrow Avro blog post. Notable New Contributors in apache/arrow for 2025. Author Number of prs Number of line changes (+ and -) alinaliBQ 36 15754 andishgar 19 2926 AntoinePrv 8 79257 rmnskb 7 550 justing-bq 4 12607 Notable New Contributors in apache/arrow-rs for 2025. Author Number of prs Number of line changes (+ and -) scovich 50 21006 jecsand838 38 26753 friendlymatthew 33 7203 sdf-jkl 4 388 rambleraptor 4 333 Notable New Contributors in apache/arrow-go for 2025. Author Number of prs Number of line changes (+ and -) Mandukhai-Alimaa 6 1392 hamilton-earthscope 5 2998 Release, Packaging and CI A lot of work has been done around the Continuous Integration and Developer Tools area. Ensuring a project with the reach of Arrow is properly working requires validation on a huge matrix of operating systems, architectures, libraries, versions. Needless to say that maintenance work has tremendous importance for the health of the project and the positive contributor experience. The most active contributors in the main repository are the ones contributing heavily on those areas while also providing the most review capacity. Shout out to kou and raulcd for taking such good care of the project and devoting countless hours so that everything runs smoothly. Notable contributions worth mentioning are enhanced release automation and reproducible builds for sources, migrating remaining AppVeyor and Azure jobs to GitHub actions, improving dev experience with more pre-commit checks instead of custom made linting tools. Moving some implementations out of the main repository (apache/arrow on GitHub) helped with easier releases and maintenance of the main repository and also of separate language implementations. The current apache/arrow repo now holds the format specification, C++ implementation together with all the bindings to it (Python, R, Ruby and C GLib). Other languages now live in their own apache/ repos namely apache/arrow-java, apache/arrow-js, apache/arrow-rs, apache/arrow-go, apache/arrow-nanoarrow, apache/arrow-dotnet and apache/arrow-swift. Notable Contributors in apache/arrow for 2025. Author Number of prs Number of line changes (+ and -) kou 221 141015 AntoinePrv 8 79257 raulcd 110 46645 pitrou 101 36585 jbonofre 1 20061 Notable Components in apache/arrow for 2025. Component label Number of merged prs Number of line changes (+ and -) Parquet 100 103828 C++ 387 82744 FlightRPC 43 52659 CI 237 42249 Ruby 74 20676 Migration of infrastructure from Voltron Data As Voltron Data has wound down its operations in 2025, the Arrow project had to migrate benchmarking infrastructure and nightly report from Voltron-managed services to an Arrow-managed AWS account. This work has been driven by rok. Closing of Stale issues thisisnic was working on closing of stale issues in the apache/arrow repository which helped surfacing important issues that were overlooked or forgotten. Code contributions C++ implementation Community support for maintenance and development of the Acero C++ is continuing with multiple bigger contributions in 2025 done by pitrou and zanmato1984. Many kernels have been moved from the integrated compute module into a separate, optional package for improvement of modularity and distribution size when optional compute functionality is not being used. The work has been done by raulcd. Arrow C++ Parquet implementation There have been multiple contributions to fix and improve fuzzing support for Parquet. Fuzzing work is led by pitrou who is also one of the most active members of the community guiding other developers and supporting us with abundant review capacity. Multiple newer types have also been supported in the last year, namely: VARIANT, UUID, GEOMETRY and GEOGRAPHY contributed by neilechao and paleolimbot. An important feature added has also been Content-Defined Chunking which improves deduplication of Parquet files with mostly identical contents, by choosing data page boundaries based on actual contents rather than a number of values 3. This work has been done by kszucs. There have been improvements in the Parquet encryption support for most of the releases in the last year. These efforts have been driven mostly by EnricoMi, pitrou, adamreeve and kapoisu. PyArrow A lot of work has been put into adding type annotations. It all started in July at EuroPython sprints and the code is now ready to be reviewed and merged. Some more review capacity will be needed to get this over the finish line. The work has been championed by rok. Rust Arrow Rust community invested heavily in the Rust parquet reader for which they created several blog posts 4, 5. The work has been championed by alamb and etseidl. Notable Components in apache/arrow-rs for 2025. component merged_prs line_changes parquet 333 140958 arrow 436 76590 parquet-variant 125 41832 api-change 59 33938 arrow-avro 48 29487 Java The biggest changes in apache/arrow-java for 2025 have been connected to Flight and Avro components plus Sphinx support due to the Java implementation being moved into a separate Apache repository. Contributors involved in the above are lidavidm and martin-traverse. Go There has been a lot of work related to new variant type in the Parquet implementation done in apache/arrow-go all by zeroshade. Noticeable emphasis was also visible on performance-focused PRs leading to the addition of row seeking, bloom filter reading/writing, and reduction of allocations in the Parquet library along with significant optimization work in the compute.Take kernels. Shout out to pixelherodev and hamilton-earthscope for the emphasis they placed on improving performance. Notable Components in apache/arrow-go for 2025. component merged_prs line_changes parquet 34 27056 arrow 33 14235 Nanoarrow Bigger work in nanoarrow include Decimal32/64 and ListView/LargeListView support, LZ4 and ZSTD decompression in the IPC reader, and broader packaging via Conan, Homebrew, and vcpkg. Contributors driving most above are paleolimbot and WillAyd. Arrow Summit 25 One last thing to highlight would be our first Arrow Summit 25 that was held in Paris in October 2025. The event was a great success and it brought users, contributors and maintainers together. It definitely was a highlight of the year for many of us. Thanks to raulcd and pitrou for organizing the event. Thank you! We would like to thank every single contributor to Apache Arrow for being a part of this great community and project! Hope this blog post helps to validate all the work you have done and motivates us to continue collaborating and growing together! The Notebooks with the analysis for this blog post can be found in 6. Note not all language implementations are mentioned. Some due to being moved into a separate repository in 2025 resulting in missing information for large amount of merged pull requests. Others due to having lower number of bigger contributions in the past year. Apache Arrow is 10 years old 🎉 ↩ Developer Thriving: Four Sociocognitive Factors That Create Resilient Productivity on Software Teams ↩ Parquet Content-Defined Chunking ↩ A Practical Dive Into Late Materialization in arrow-rs Parquet Reads ↩ 3x-9x Faster Apache Parquet Footer Metadata Using a Custom Thrift Parser in Rust ↩ arrow-maintenance/explorations ↩
