---
title: Apache Arrow ADBC 23 (Libraries) Release
url: https://arrow.apache.org/blog/2026/04/07/adbc-23-release/
date: '2026-04-07'
author: pmc
feed_url: https://arrow.apache.org/feed.xml
---
The Apache Arrow team is pleased to announce the version 23 release of the Apache Arrow ADBC libraries. This release includes 41 resolved issues from 20 distinct contributors. This is a release of the libraries, which are at version 23. The API specification is versioned separately and is at version 1.1.0. The subcomponents are versioned independently: C/C++/GLib/Go/Python/Ruby: 1.11.0 C#: 0.23.0 Java: 0.23.0 R: 0.23.0 Rust: 0.23.0 The release notes below are not exhaustive and only expose selected highlights of the release. Many other bugfixes and improvements have been made: we refer you to the complete changelog. Release Highlights A breaking change has been made to the Rust APIs (pre-1.0): returned RecordBatchReaders are now type-erased and boxed for caller flexibility; this also fixes the returned reader lifetime accidentally being tied to input argument lifetimes (#3904). A driver manager for Node.js is now available from NPM (#4046, #4091, #4116, #4125, etc.). The C++ and Rust driver managers now support connection profiles (#3876, #3973, #4080, #4083 etc.). (Note that other bindings that use the C++ driver manager, including GLib/Ruby, Go, Java, Python, R, and so on, inherit this support.) The Go APIs have added interfaces that always take a context.Context for consistency, and to make sure context like telemetry traces propagate properly (#4009). The Python driver manager has added specific parameters for using connection profiles as well (#4078, #4118). Also, non-string option values are directly accepted for convenience (#4088). adbc_get_statistics has been added (#4129). The JNI bindings (allowing use of C/C++/Go/Rust/etc. drivers from Java) now support more functions (GetObjects, GetInfo, ExecuteSchema, etc.) (#3966, #3972, #4056). Packages are now being uploaded to Homebrew (#4131). Python wheels now require manylinux_2_28, up from manylinux2010, following PyArrow (#4146). On macOS, macOS 12 is now the minimum version due to upgrading to Go 1.25+ (including on conda-forge, where the packages previously pinned Go 1.24 to avoid this). The PostgreSQL driver tries to reconcile Arrow NA arrays with PostgreSQL types when binding (#4098). Also, a bug in conversion from Arrow decimals to PostgreSQL numerics has been fixed (#3787). The SQLite driver now enables various optional features, like math functions (#4147). Contributors $ git shortlog --perl-regexp --author='^((?!dependabot\[bot\]).*)$' -sn apache-arrow-adbc-22..apache-arrow-adbc-23 35 David Li 12 Kent Wu 10 Matt Topol 8 eitsupi 6 Bryce Mecum 5 Bruce Irschick 4 Mandukhai Alimaa 3 Emil Sadek 3 Tornike Gurgenidze 2 Dewey Dunnington 2 Felipe Oliveira Carvalho 2 eric-wang-1990 1 Curt Hagenlocher 1 Ian Cook 1 Madhavendra Rathore 1 Mila Page 1 Pavel Agafonov 1 Roshan Banisetti 1 davidhcoe 1 oglego Roadmap We are working on the next revision of the API standard, focusing on missing features (primarily metadata/catalog data). We welcome anyone interested in contributing. Current progress can be found in the 1.2.0 specification milestone. Getting Involved We welcome questions and contributions from all interested. Issues can be filed on GitHub, and questions can be directed to GitHub or the Arrow mailing lists.
